Next, here's a question from a student: "
Teacher, someone told me
that when a loved one dies, you shouldn't
mention their name or remember them too much because it will
affect their spiritual practice and reincarnation in the
afterlife. I don't know if that's true
or not, I hope you can help me answer
this question. My grandmother just passed away.
Sometimes I miss her so much I can't control my
emotions, what should I do? Thank you, teacher." "
Yes, this is a belief that
if you remember the
deceased too much, it will be difficult for them to attain liberation.
How should
we understand this correctly? We have attachment to them, so they
linger around us. That's just a
mental factor. If they love us and we love
them, then if they have enough merit to be reborn,
they and we will have a connection.
So, we also have attachment. How
can we benefit the
deceased? We must practice and
dedicate blessings to
them because they have attachment to us, so
they will receive that karmic reward. That's
best. The family should chant."  The Sutra of the
Bodhisattva Ksitigarbha, when reciting the Sutra of the Bodhisattva Ksitigarbha, involves making offerings to the
Three Jewels and dedicating the blessings to the deceased.
Then, vowing to
meet again in countless lifetimes, both as
fellow practitioners until the day of Buddhahood,
that is the most auspicious karmic connection.
If you were to simply cut ties
after death, without offering prayers or sacrifices,
but the deceased's karma dictates that
they
become hungry ghosts or unfortunate spirits, they would
not simply leave you.
They still have karmic consequences. Because they
were your grandmother, and you haven't yet repaid your
filial piety, they still have the right to
follow you. If they loved
you, they still have the right to follow you; you ca
n't just cut ties from one side. If
you didn't love them, but you had sufficient virtue and
morality to dedicate the blessings to them, then you
have repaid your debt and
balanced your karma, only then
can they leave you. As a follower of
Buddha, you should always
vow that
wherever you are reborn, you will bring forth blessings.
Bringing blessings to those around you
and doing good deeds to
dedicate to your parents, relatives, and ancestors from
many lifetimes—only then
is that person truly someone who eliminates
attachment in a noble way—attachment without attachment,
yet bringing benefit to
everyone. Yes, ma'am. On behalf of the person who
just asked the question, thank you for
your sharing and encouragement,
[music]
Oh